=head1 NAME

totem-video-thumbnailer - video thumbnailer for the MATE desktop

=head1 SYNOPSYS

B<totem-video-thumbnailer> [-j|--jpeg] [-l|--no-limit] [-g num|--gallery num] [-s size] input output [backend options]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This manual page documents briefly the B<totem-video-thumbnailer> command. This manual page was written for the Debian Project because  the original program does not have a manual page.

B<totem-video-thumbnailer> is used internally by MATE applications such as B<caja> to generate PNG thumbnails of video files. While it is possible to invoke it manually, it is usually done automatically by B<caja>.

=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over 8

=item B<input>

The input filename. This can be in any format that B<totem> can play.

=item B<output>

The output filename, output in PNG format.

=item B<backend options>

Options to be passed to the backend (i.e. B<gstreamer>).

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 8

=item B<-j> B<--jpeg>

Switch the output format to JPEG. The default is PNG.

=item B<-g num> B<--gallery num>

Output a gallery of the given number (0 is the default) of screenshots.

=item B<-l> B<--no-limit>

Don't limit the thumbnailing time to 30 seconds. For debugging purposes.

=item B<-s size>

The size of the thumbnail. Example: "64x64". The default is "128x96".

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

B<totem-video-thumbnailer> was written by Bastien Nocera <hadess@hadess.net>.

This manual page was written by Zack Cerza <zcerza@coe.neu.edu> for the Debian Project (but may be used by others).

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 8

=item B<totem>, B<caja>
