.\"
.\" mate-session manual page.
.\" (C) 2000 Miguel de Icaza (miguel@helixcode.com)
.\" (C) 2009-2010 Vincent Untz (vuntz@gnome.org)
.\"
.TH MATE-SESSION 1 "MATE"
.SH NAME
mate-session \- Start the MATE desktop environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mate-session [\-\-autostart=DIR] [\-\-default-session-key=KEY] [\-\-failsafe|\-f] [\-\-debug]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fImate-session\fP program starts up the MATE desktop
environment. This command is typically executed by your login manager
(either mdm, xdm, or from your X startup scripts). It will load
either your saved session, or it will provide a default session for the
user as defined by the system administrator (or the default MATE
installation on your system).
.PP
The default session is defined in the MateConf keys under
\fB/desktop/mate/session\fP.
When saving a session, \fImate-session\fP saves the currently running
applications in the \fB$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/mate-session/saved-session\fP
directory.
.PP
\fImate-session\fP is an X11R6 session manager. It can manage MATE
applications as well as any X11R6 SM compliant.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are supported:
.TP
.I "--autostart=DIR"
Start all applications defined in \fIDIR\fP, instead of starting the
applications defined in \fB/desktop/mate/session/default_session\fP,
or via the \fI--default-session-key\fP option. Multiple
\fI--autostart\fP options can be passed.
.TP
.I "--default-session-key=KEY"
Set the MateConf key from which applications running a default session
should be read to \fIKEY\fP. If not specificed,
\fB/desktop/mate/session/default_session\fP will be used.
.TP
.I "--failsafe"
Run in fail-safe mode. User-specified applications will not be started.
.TP
.I "--debug"
Enable debugging code.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
\fImate-session\fP sets several environment variables for the use of
its child processes:
.PP
.B SESSION_MANAGER
.IP
This variable is used by session-manager aware clients to contact
mate-session.
.PP
.B DISPLAY
.IP
This variable is set to the X display being used by
\fImate-session\fP. Note that if the --display option is used
this might be different from the setting of the environment variable
when mate-session is invoked.
.SH FILES
.PP
.B $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/config/autostart
.B $XDG_CONFIG_DIRS/config/autostart
.B /usr/share/mate/autostart
.IP
The applications defined in those directories will be started on login.
\fImate-session-properties(1)\fP can be used to easily configure them.
.PP
.B $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/mate-session/saved-session
.IP
This directory contains the list of applications of the saved session.
.SH BUGS
If you find bugs in the \fImate-session\fP program, please report
these on https://bugzilla.gnome.org.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mate-session-properties(1)
.BR mate-session-save(1)
.BR mate-wm(1)
